Private GitHub Repository for Competition #3 on Will Gleave, Nick Bruno, & Ashwanth Samuel

REFLECTION Setup: This competition was meant to demonstrate the business impact that thorough data analysis can have. In this competition we were tasked with analyzing a Google Merchandise Store (GStore) customer dataset to predict revenue per customer. The outcome hopefully would be more actional operational changes and a better use of marketing budgets for those companies who choose to use data analysis on top of the google analytics data, which already exists for certain stores. This project ended up being difficult to adapt to the scale of the data that was provided (both training and testing.)

Who Might Care about this Problem and Why?: This issue of using different types of data to predict revenue per customer is definitely scalable and usable for those who might care about the questions that it answers, as well as the questions it raises. This practice could absolutely revolutionize the way that stores are set up, such as product placement within a website or even change the types of products that companies decide to manufacture and sell. The implications for this type of rigorous analysis could help services like Amazon capture an even higher percentage of the market but also could tremendously help smaller players. For example, if an API was built out of the most successful model, smaller sites, instead of arming themselves with an entire team of data scientists, could just use the API plug in and completely optimize their selling practices. 

Additionally, this could prevent huge amounts of products from going to waste, if a company is able to decide which and how much of certain products they should be manufacturing and sending to "market." Lastly, this could easily be transformed to other industries besides retail. For example, these idea can be scaled for grocery stores or warehouses that primarily serve B2B.

What Made this Problem Challenging?: This competition was very difficult for a couple of reasons. First, was the sheer size of the dataset that the team was manipulating. The data had to be flattened to make it viable for us to read in, so one can imagine the time it took to operate that data using manipulation techniques. Second, our team decided to use both R and Python because of our increased familiarity with the respective softwares as well as its relevant references that were brought up during class. We found, however, that both of these languages have their pros and cons. Pandas in python allows for easy manipulation of the dataframe, but running statistical tests is much easier in R. 

What other Problems Resemble this Problem? This type of problem can be resembled in many other scenarios as well. For example, any other online retail site could utilize this analysis to guess not only the predicted revenue that a customer will spend, but also other information like what other products is the user likely to view. Additionally, this type of analysis can be used retroactively to identify the most prolific spenders. For example, if these people were identified after frequenting the site, maybe the most active shoppers could be targeted with ads featuring other products that they may also like, thus increasing the profitability of the store. 

Team Roles: Our team learned a lot while working together on this Kaggle competition.  The steps of this project included collaborating and brainstorming how to approach the initial models, taking some time to think about what we needed for our following submissions, understanding the algorithm behind the each of the types of models, and implementing the steps needed to solve the problem. This proved to be a challenging, yet intriguing task for us and we all worked with our individual strengths to produce our deliverable. The roles were discussed before the start of the project, and were subsequently altered as our thinking and understanding of the problem changed.

Will was in charge of implementing the random forest methods and also conducted the data cleaning in Python. He also conducted an initial exploratory analysis for the data, such as discovering that there were many Null values that needed to be thrown out. 

Nick was in charge of the OLS model and the spline regression. He was able to select and choose the variables and words that he thought were most informative in relation to predicting the revenue per customer.

Ashwanth was the administrative lead on the project, pulling together the submission and taking care of the paperwork. 
